
=== PAGE 1 ===
International Journal of Research in Advent Technology, Vol.6, No.7, July 2018 
E-ISSN: 2321-9637 
Available online at www.ijrat.org 
 
1659 
 
Project Planning, Scheduling, Tracking and Cost 
Control – A Case Study for Residential (G+4) Building 
by Using Software Primavera P6 
 
Shahnawaz Naseem1, Akash Agrawal2, Naresh Harry3 
1-M. Tech Student, 2,3-Assistant Professor 
Department of Civil Engineering, Shepherd Institute of Engineering & Technology 
Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Allahabad, India 
shah92.sn@gmail.com,8574370739 
 
Abstract- The construction industry has been rising speedily from the early da ys. One of the developments was 
planning, scheduling, tracking and costing by using software. Proper planning, scheduling, costing and 
application are the major constraint in construction industry. It is very essential in construction projects for 
reducing cost and controlling delays of the project. Noteworthy amounts of time, money, resources are washed 
out each year in a construction industry due to wrong planning and scheduling. 
        The software used for this study is Primavera P6, this tool is opera tes throughout from planning phase to 
scheduling of a project, it reduced gigantic quantity of paperwork. Make available good planning, proper 
management, acceptable flow of resources to a project cannot involuntarily achieve favored result. An alarming 
method must be present which can aware the team about its promising achievement and breakdown all over the 
project. Due to unseemly scheduling, irregular monitoring and controlling of ongoing activities huge amount of 
time and resources is wasted every year or we can in every construction projects. In the present work, study is 
carried out on residential (G+4) apartment. This study covers up the progression of planning, scheduling, 
tracking and controlling of activities.. 
Keywords- Planning; Scheduling; Tracking; Project Planning Software; Primavera. 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
In this present situation, construction is being greater 
than before or we can say we are living in concrete 
jungle. With globalization the construction projects 
have turn into massive and complex. Unlike global 
association manages the constructions each day and 
which has turned into a most vital piece of business. In 
the older days the software were not used in 
construction schemes no proper planning or 
scheduling was part of constructional  activities and 
projects ar e freely started by contractor and planning 
was done by tender. Now a day, architectural planning 
is done with the help of much software but for the 
starting there is not any accurate management was 
done which leads for the completion of work. Thus 
this ef fort is made to achieve exact method over the 
construction activities with the use of software. 
Primavera P6 is a progress computer built -in 
undertaking project management tool. As we know 
India is prosperous in construction industry so we 
should be well-known with tools like primavera which 
is greatly advance management tool with recorded 
data base ORACLE this tool is web measurable for 
modification in an any situation in management 
activities this tool work for multi project at a time can 
be monitor and c ontrol all the projects proper 
management is required with official recognition and 
this can be possible if we know primavera tool 
completely and accurately. 
1.1.  Project Planning  
Generating the project plan is the first thing you 
should do when taking responsibility any kind of 
project. However, many people are unsuccessful to 
grab the value of a plan in saving time, money, and 
many problems. The project management methods of 
planning and scheduling are tools and strategy, which 
are used to figure the p roject. The concluding point of 
a construction project requires the sensible scheduling 
and allocation of on hand resources. Man power, 
money, equipment, and material are major project 
resources that compel close management 
concentration. The supply and av ailability of these 
resources close not often be taken approved because of 
seasonal shortages, labor quarrels, cash flow, and 
equipment collapse effecting demands, postponed 
deliveries, and a mass of related doubts. 
1.2. Scheduling 
Sub-headings should be typeset in boldface and 
capitalize the first letter of the first word only. Section 
number to be in boldface roman. 
1.3.  Cost Control 
Cost overrun is the one the main challenge for 
construction industry. It occurs near about in every 
construction project and varies very much from 
project to project. So it is necessary to target the actual 
=== PAGE 2 ===
International Journal of Research in Advent Technology, Vol.6, No.7, July 2018 
E-ISSN: 2321-9637 
Available online at www.ijrat.org 
 
1660 
 
causes of cost overruns in order to reduce the delays 
and rising cost in any construction project. Cost 
overrun is defined as excess of actual cost over  
budget.  Cost overrun is also sometimes called cost 
escalation, cost increase or budget overrun. Cost 
overrun is defined as the change in contract sum 
separated by the original contract award amount. 
Construction projects endure from cost overruns due 
to a variety of factors. 
1.4.  Tracking 
To know the project has been executed according 
to the planning, tracking has been takes place. 
Tracking helps to stick to the plan during 
execution. The tracking is the process of analyses 
the updated schedule whether the cost and units of 
the project are beyond or ahead or equal of the 
planning. Tracking is comes under the process of 
monitoring and controlling of the construction 
project. Tracking of the project can be done after 
updating the project by monitoring. If the p roject 
is deviated from the schedule or cost it can easily 
be identified and resolved. 
(1) Tracking of the construction projects involves 
following steps: 
(2) Collecting data of the Project from the 
Organization. 
(3) Entering the details of the Project in Primavera. 
(4) Monitoring the execution of the Project. 
(5) Entering the planned and the actual Cost 
(6) Tracking the Project 
(7) Forecasting the Project 
Report and Conclusion 
2. PRIMAVERA P6 
Primavera P6 is project management software 
developed by Oracle. This software is mainly used f or 
project management and helps the users to manage 
projects of any range. Primavera P6 handles large 
scale projects which are cloud based, and easy to use 
solution for worldwide planning, managing and 
executing project. Primavera gives project manager’s 
and scheduler’s opportunity to manage highly 
sophisticated and multifaceted projects. Primavera P6 
is high end project management software which 
provides enterprise-wide solution. It helps in reducing 
costs, delivering the project on the projected time by 
streamlining and coordinating with the management 
level changes. This software optimizes the overall 
resources so that the project runs efficiently no matter 
how big the size of the project is. It is designed to 
manage a large number of projects at a time f or an 
organization. By using Primavera P6, one can 
simultaneously plan major project strategies and 
control the minute details to finish the project. 
3. OBJECTIVE OF STUDY 
The objectives of this study are: 
1. To identify construction sequence for a residentia l 
building construction. 
2. To work out the practical durations required to carry 
out the activities. 
3. To identify scheduling technique used by the 
organization in developing plan and scheduling. 
4. To develop scheduling using Primavera project 
planner’s software. 
5. To track the project and analyze the reasons for 
delays, and increase in estimated budget etc. 
6. To investigate defects in the planning and 
scheduling procedure of the organization, and suggest 
suitable improvements in their methods. 
4. RESEARCH METHODOLOGY 
Firstly data are taken from construction site to put in a 
software and study directly. For the research intention, 
(G+4) residential building apartment is taken as a case 
study. 
The taken data will be explore in Primavera software, 
tracking of the project will be done and all the reports 
and results generated from the software will be studied 
and communications with the organization will be 
done on the subject of selection of the planning 
process and software to be used in their upcoming 
projects. 
 
The data collection has been taken in three ways: 
 Daily progress reports (DPR) 
 Work output of labor 
 Activities with their planned duration 
 
4.1 Project Details:- 
 
4.2 Project Plan:- 
 
 
 
 
Project Name Hakeem Aghghan Apartment 
Type G+4 
Client Mr. Abbas Raza 
Builder Mr. Aftab Ahmad 
Site location Ranimandi, Allahabad 
Built up area 646 sq.ft. 
Project duration 1year 
=== PAGE 3 ===
International Journal of Research in Advent Technology, Vol.6, No.7, July 2018 
E-ISSN: 2321-9637 
Available online at www.ijrat.org 
 
1661 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
=== PAGE 4 ===
International Journal of Research in Advent Technology, Vol.6, No.7, July 2018 
E-ISSN: 2321-9637 
Available online at www.ijrat.org 
 
1662 
 
5. RESULTS & DISCUSSION 
Daily progress reports:- 
Below the DPR consist of in depth description of the 
work done, labor and resources. All the DPR from the 
first day of project till now have been collected. 
 
EDIFICE CONSULTANTS 
NAME OF SITE: HAKEEM AGGHAN APARTMENT, AT RANIMANDI, ALLAHABAD DATE: 23-11-2017 
DAILY PROGRESS REPORT 
NO. DESCRIPTION QUANTITY UNIT LABOUR NOS 
1 PLINTH BEAM SHUTTERING WORK IS COMPLETED.   MASON 0 
2 PLINTH BEAM SHUTTERING WORK IS CHECKED AS PER WORKING DRAWING.   M/C 7 
3 LIFT RAFT PARDI SHUTTERING WORK IN PROGRESS.   F/C 6 
4 CURING WORK FOR LIFT RAFT, FOOTING, STUB COLUMN COMPLETED.   SUPERVISOR 1 
5 FIRST SLAB COLUMN STEEL ERECTION WORK IN PROGRESS.   CARPENTER 3 
6 PLINTH BEAM STEEL ERECTION WORK IS COMPLETED.   HELPER 3 
7 PLINTH BEAM GROUND AREA COMPACTION WORK IN PROGRESS.   FITTER 3 
8 PLINTH BEAM STEEL CHECKED AS PER DRAWING.   HELPER 3 
9 B' BLDG. SIDE & BANDH SIDE BACKFILLING BY JCB. TIME 9:20 A.M. TO 12:50 P.M. & 
2:00 P.M. TO 6:00 P.M. 7.3 HRS SECURITY 1 
10 PLITH BEAM CASTING WORK IS COMPLETED. 5.07 CUM DEPART M\C 1 
11 VISITED TO ARCHITECT FOR DRAWING HE GAVE ONLY PLINTH BEAM WORKING 
DRAWING SOFT COPY.   DEPART F\C 0 
12 BIG BOLDER CONVERTED IN RUBBLE WORK IS COMPLETED 640 NOS BOLDER M/C 2 
13 MYCEM COMPANY QC ENGINEER VISITED ON SITE & ONE TRIAL MIX CONCRETE 6 
NOS.CUBE CASTED. 
    
MATERIAL GRADE BALANCE  CONSUMPTION PLINTH BEAM    
CEMENT 53 410 BAGS  CEMENT 34 BAG   
  34 BAGS  CRUSHED SAND 
92.11 CFT   
BALANCE  376 BAGS  20mm METAL 
126.90 CFT   
 
Work Output of labor:- 
Work output is the quantity of work done by a labor in 
a day. It is used to compute duration necessary for 
activity based on the existing manpower on site. 
Sr. 
No
. 
Particular of 
Item 
Quantity done per 
day by one person 
M2 M3 
1 
Brickwork in Lime or 
Cement Mortar in 
Foundation Plinth 
 1.25 
2 
Brickwork in Lime or 
Cement Mortar in Super 
Structure 
 1 
3 
Coursed Rubble Stone 
masonry including 
dressing 
 0.8 
4 Cement concrete 1:2:4 5 
5 RCC Work  3 
6 12 mm Cement Plaster 8  
7 White washing or Color 
washing 200  
8 
Painting and Vanishing 
doors and windows 
(1coat) 
25  
9 Painting Large surface 
(1 coat) 35  
10 Distempering (1coat) 35  
 
Activities with their planned duration:- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig (a) Updation of the Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig (b) Tracking Cost of the Project 
 
=== PAGE 5 ===
International Journal of Research in Advent Technology, Vol.6, No.7, July 2018 
E-ISSN: 2321-9637 
Available online at www.ijrat.org 
 
1663 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig (c) Scheduling of the apartment building 
6. CONCLUSION 
 Habitual monitoring of the work under 
implementation must be done at least within week 
in order to take sufficient actions against 
improbability. 
 Primary baseline and Gantt chart created makes 
easy to recognize critical path and monitoring task 
against it improvement extremely easy by 
observing colors of bars.  
 Carrying out review to view divergence in 
schedule helped and control against planned 
schedule is just piece of cake with this software. 
 WBS helped to systematize, assemble and know 
the work achievement in percentage at every 
portions/nodes in it. 
 Appropriate co -ordination and ease of statement 
of running of assignment. 
 In this project by appl ying booming and fast 
tracking method duration of chosen events is 
compact to reschedule within the baseline. 
 Using primavera technique of resource 
compulsion, compression of various activities is 
done by increasing working hours.  
 Primavera (P6) proved to  be a best tool for 
scheduling, monitoring and controlling and shows 
its effectiveness in only if best results with less 
attempt of user by preventing massive volume 
paperwork. 
 CONCLUSION(A.1) 
REFERENCES  
[1] Tom, A. F.; Paul S. (2013): Project Monitoring 
and Control using Primavera, Vol. 2, Issue 3 
[2] Hussain, S.M.A.M.; Chakravarthy, M. M.; Fatima  
(2016): Scheduling Of an Residential Building 
Using Project Management Techniques. 
[3] Veena, H. C.; Vijay, K.; Rajendra, S.; Kumar, R. 
K. (2016): Schedule Control of an A partment 
Building using Primavera Techniques, Vol. 5 
Issue 06 
[4] T.Subramani, T.; Lishitha, P.T.; Kavitha, M. 
(2014): Time Overrun and Cost Effectiveness in 
the Construction Industry, Vol. 4, Issue 6 
[5] Mistry, N.M.; Kanani , M.A.; Sharma, N.D. 
(2015): Application of Primavera Software For 
Scheduling Of Row House To Complete Project 
On Time.  
[6] Fischer, M. (2010) :Combining different Project 
Modelling approaches for effective support of 
multi-disciplinary engineering tasks, CA 94302-
4020, USA. 
[7] Zanen, P. & Hartmann, T. (2010) :The 
Application of Construction Project Management 
tools an overview of tools for Managing and 
Controlling Construction Projects. 
[8] Pramilaadavi & Pethesarang, (2012): Application 
of Primavera in Construction Industry. 
[9] Chitkara, K.K. (2006): Construction Project 
Management, Tata McGraw-Hill Publication. 
 
 